Theme Tune: [Music]
Al: Hello farmers, and welcome to another episode of the harvest season. My name is Al
Al: And we are here today to talk about cotch score games
Greg: And my name is Greg.
Greg: I have a, I've always had this question.
Greg: Who came up with the term cottage core?
Greg: Like where did this come from?
Greg: Because it was not a thing back in the day and then suddenly now it's a thing.
Al: I think it's our 2020 thing.
Greg: Okay.
Greg: That makes sense.
Greg: like there's a there's a there's that
Greg: whole genre.
Greg: But whenever it was like, it's something something core. It's hope core. It's sadness core. I don't know.
Al: Yes.
Al: So it looks okay.
Al: I have an answer for you that is very rare to have an answer,
Al: but the answer is it started in 2018 on,
Al: guess what social media say?
Al: You'll get it, you'll get it in one.
Greg: It's got to be Tumblr. I mean, that's, that's where, that's where all weird things stem from.
Al: It's Tumblr.
Al: [laughing]
Al: Yeah, yeah, I knew you'd get it,
Al: but yeah, Tumblr in 2018.
Greg: Weird things come from Tumblr. Angry things come from Reddit. That's, if somebody's that rage,
Al: [laughing]
Al: racist things come from Twitter.
Greg: yeah, well, boy. What? How far the most popular platform has fallen is still
Greg: shocking to me? How quickly, I mean, there's people are still on it, doesn't surprise me,
Al: What's more shocking, that or the fact that people are still on it?
Greg: because like, I'm still on it with everything locked down, because I have an identity there,
Greg: and I don't want anybody to steal it. But like, I don't use it. Yeah. Oh, yeah, yeah. No, it's not. I mean,
Al: Right, okay, having an account is not the same as being on it, I don't think.
Greg: I check it every once in a while, because I'm just like, okay, is something over here happening.
Greg: Do I need to be aware of somebody trying to...
Greg: message me through Twitter, even though I've told them not to?
Al: Yeah, I think the people the people to blame other people who are posting on it if you don't post on it
Al: I don't think you're cuz I still technically have an account as well
Al: And very occasionally someone will post a link and I go on and look at it and then look at the replies and then click the home button and go
Al: No, no, this place is still horrific
Greg: No, this is and it's getting worse. That's the thing. It's so wild how it's getting worse anyways
Al: Yeah
Greg: That's not what we're here to talk about
Al: I thought we were here to
Greg: We're gonna talk about some some other random weird thing that happens
Al: I thought we were here to talk about genres of games and debate that let me tell I
Greg: I mean we could look if I want to drive you up the absolute wall
Greg: We can get into genre of games
Greg: We'll start with what's a mainline Pokemon game, and I will watch you
Al: Oh
Greg: slowly devolve into the game.
Al: Look the mainline Pokemon game one is easy
Al: It's what does game freak say because this is the thing that the whole point of main series is for the creators of it to say
Al: This is the main series right and doesn't mean that fine
Al: fans can't have other terms and it doesn't mean the fans can group things in different ways.
Al: But like the point of the main series is for the developers to say this is what it is.
Greg: [laughing]
Al: All right, well, we're here this episode to talk about
Al: the most bizarre game with the most odd decisions, we'll talk about them later and that is
Al: Tom Adacio Life Living the Dream.
Greg: Boy, they made decisions. Boy, they made some decisions in that game.
Al: I have so much to talk about with this game, which we will get to later.
Al: Before that, we have some news, but first of all, Greg, what have you been up to?
Greg: Okay
Greg: Yes, I have been up to well, so
Greg: I'm playing Tomadachi life. I'm still actively playing PCopia. I actually play PCopia more than I
Al: Yeah, I mean, that's fair.
Greg: Play Tomadachi life, which we will get into why I
Greg: Will get into why because there's they've made some choices with our with our little Tomadachi
Al: What's your Procopius status then, where are you?
Greg: Oh, like
Greg: Environment-wise or like how happy I am
Al: Where why do you want to talk about?
Greg: So I have wastelands to 10 I have bleak beach to 10 I have
Greg: The Rocklands to nine I have pallet town to eight and I have
Greg: Skylands to eight and then I'm like oh, yeah, there's a cloud area
Greg: That I can play with so I just started over there and
Greg: then I also have my own personal pallet town place at an eight, but am I at all happy with anything? No. Like like the beach is at 10 and I'm like cool, but I have to repair an entire ship and I'm only I only have marble flooring down for one because I was trying to figure out a good way to do the wireless wiring and
Greg: just like, okay, well, I can't hide everything. It is there's just some places where you're going to see a weird brass plate in the ceiling, but only if you look up and nobody looks up. So I'm just going to put it there and then I'm like, oh, I have to do something with this stage and so I get into these situations where I'm like, okay, well, I have this thing to do. Oh, I have this thing to do. I need to do this.
Greg: I think it's one of the brilliant things about spoke up yet is every time I log in. I always feel like oh,
Greg: I can go work on this for a while and then I can switch over here while that's being done. Like I finally built all of the altars. I have all three altars done in pallet town and I put them in pallet town. Like I know people took them to other areas and I'm like, I have, I cannot clear out a space for these gigantic places. I'm just going to put them in the in the blank slate and I will build accordingly around them.
Al: Yeah, see you.
Greg: But yeah, there's just it's surprising how good that game is and how much it just has things to do and at any point, like at any point, anybody can just be like, okay, well, I'm done and you still got so much out of that game. It's just shocking how having such a clear vision can make a game worthwhile.
Al: Imagine that
Greg: I mean yeah like they kind of do it
Greg: exactly what I was going to do. It's not like it's a new game like it was based off of the dragon, whatever. Yeah yeah right yeah yeah yeah yes right it's a huge
Al: Sure sure, but someone a Pokemon went even if they didn't have the idea
Al: Even if it was the the dragon quest builders guys went to Pokemon and said we'd like to make a Pokemon version of this
Al: So I'm gonna Pokemon still had to go yes, right, which is a big thing for them to do
Greg: like that company. What the thing is is what's so what's so frustrating is they have
Greg: this tremendous amount of goodwill from Pocopia and then they release champions and it's hot garbage like it's first four days is like what are you doing it I do that I think I think they
Al: I want point that they regret announcing that champions would be the competitive game for
Al: this year.
Greg: regret announcing everything they announced. I think if they would I think if they had their way they would never say a word and then something would just come out.
Al: Which is how things I think is the best way when a company is as big as Pokemon for them is the best way for them to work
Greg: Yeah yeah. Yeah.
Al: Of course, there is the argument around like maybe that's bad for the rest of the industry
Al: And you know cuz we're gonna I mean we're gonna talk in the news about you know games delaying because of other games releases
Greg: which I so wild.
Greg: I have thoughts about that.
Greg: So many thoughts about how wild of a choice that is.
Al: Yeah, oh yeah
Greg: But here's the thing.
Greg: I don't, so I went to PAX East
Greg: and I don't understand what the video game industry
Greg: wants to be currently.
Greg: And I don't understand what the choices anybody's making
Greg: like we're in such a weird
Greg: time of like, the council wars are essentially dead. You either are a PlayStation or an Xbox. Nobody can afford all of them anymore. So you had to make a choice. You've made your choice. And you just sort of stuck there. And like, you can't argue to people like, hey, you should come over and buy a Switch too, because they're going to be rightly so. Like, great. Give me a thousand dollars.
Greg: Because that's pretty much how everything is costing right now.
Greg: I will get a console for $600, $700 that I will buy two games, which will bring me close to a thousand dollars.
Greg: That is a huge investment.
Greg: And the PlayStation and Xbox are no better.
Al: Yeah. Yeah.
Greg: So, like, the people are like arguing about consoles and like, great.
Greg: But you buy me the other one then, because I have no way of comparing.
Greg: because they cannot possibly afford $3,000.
Greg: And then steam is like, "Hey, do you want to carry everything in your pocket?"
Al: it's time that I find is the biggest issue with these things. Like if you have infinite
Greg: I mean, I guess, but that's another $1,000.
Greg: Yeah. Yeah.
Al: money, you still can't play all the games. So I just did a quick check. So comparing
Al: games to films. So in 1980, there were about four and a half thousand films released.
Al: in 2023, which was in my quick Googling.
Al: The latest year I could find numbers for. They were about double the number. They released. Okay. A lot more. But in 2000,
Al: there were less than a thousand games released in the entire year.
Al: Last year, there were 20,000 games released on Steam.
Greg: It's
Greg: Unbelievable. I mean
Al: 20,000 games on one platform in one year.
Greg: Like
Greg: It's like hooray like an embarrassment of riches, but also
Greg: Nobody can find it anymore like you get like it's so bad for
Greg: The consumers to have so many choices because it's so overwhelming that
Greg: So many people are fighting
Greg: for your attention, fighting for your time.
Greg: It is easy to be like,
Greg: you know what?
Greg: I have 10 minutes at the end of every day
Greg: where I can sort of do some research.
Greg: What just released today?
Greg: Because I can't possibly go back.
Greg: And the state of online
Greg: rating systems has been so bad for ever.
Greg: That you can't trust any rating online.
Greg: Like, if somebody sneezed funny three years ago, their reviews would be like, never covered
Greg: their mouth, horrible, horrible product.
Greg: It's like, okay, well, the person's bad, but did they make something good?
Greg: And like, what exactly did they do?
Al: Yeah, there's two, it's one thing like fundraising for hating an entire group and removing
Greg: Like, what's the context?
Greg: We are just this wild.
Al: their rights, for example, and just being a bit of a not-nice person, just to put
Greg: Right. Right. Right. Right. Right.
Al: out there, I think we both agree that it's fine to not support someone who is actively
Al: working towards the removal of human rights for certain people, and then it's a completely
Al: and obviously it's your call, right, what you do with what you support, but probably not liking,
Greg: - It's your call, yeah.
Al: I was saying a game is bad because the person who made it is just not a nice person, there's
Al: a whole different thing, but.
Greg: Yeah, and the other thing that was like are they not a nice person to you
Greg: Are they nice person to other people and what was your interest? It's one of the things about having a a minor bit of internet fame
Greg: that I have is like
Greg: the constant one the constant awareness of
Greg: When you meet people there is always an expectation of
Greg: tearfulness, willingness, openness, the flip side of that is awesome.
Greg: So a lot of people feel they have a lot of access in right to your life, your mood in your body.
Greg: And so like, it's such a difficult thing to navigate.
Greg: And when I see people are like, I met them at a con and they were sharp with me and I'm like,
Greg: okay, but that's humans. They're like, what was the context?
Al: And what was the context on that, right? Like, did you talk to them while they were like setting up for something or like, you know, there's so many different things.
Greg: Yeah, it's just wild. Anyways, I've been up to making all my other podcasts and playing these
Greg: games when they can. What have you been up to? Now that we've took another huge legend.
Al: If that's what this party is, it is tangents.
Greg: I know his tangent. That's what all podcasts are. Podcasting is tangent.
Al: Obviously, I've been playing time with judge to life as well.
Al: No, I keep mongous amount.
Greg: Well, we'll get it done! That's a reason why!
Al: We'll talk about that later.
Al: But I also picked up.
Al: So unless you listen to the most recent episode
Al: of the podcast, you probably won't know that I currently have
Al: have a--
Al: so I was like, okay, I was finished with pocopia, so I decided maybe now is the time to use up my no longer cheap three month subscription. So one of the things I picked up to play was Planet of Lano. I'm not sure if you've heard of it.
Greg: [Laughs]
Greg: I've heard of it.
Al: Maybe anyway, yeah, yeah, something like that. It's relatively recent, but they're they've got a second game that's just about to come out
Al: So I thought let's try out see what it's like
Al: It's a very nice looking game. I I really enjoy looking at it
Greg: [laughs]
Al: And
Al: I'm not a huge fan of playing it
Al: But this is probably this is this is a hundred percent or it's not for me rather than it's bad thing
Al: So.
Al: The game starts off where you're in this little town and then your village you're in this little village and your village gets like destroyed by aliens and one of your loved ones gets kidnapped by the aliens.
Al: So of course your plan is to get to the aliens and save your loved one. I still loved one because I can't even remember what the relation to you was.
Greg: [Laughter]
Al: But that's a me problem. It is very much I would describe it as a stealth.
Al: 2d platformer very much focused around puzzles and I think my problem with it is I am not a huge fan of stealth just in general and this does all of the things about stealth that I don't like the things I don't like about stealth is as soon as you make a mistake you die and you reset that's it you know there's no way of solving the problem if you get spotted.
Al: There's really only one way out of everything right like the puzzle is how do you get from the left part of the screen to the right part of the screen without being seen basically that that's the entire game.
Al: It is a relatively short because of that it's maybe about 4 hours long. So I think a game that was like you know 40 50 hours long would just become dreadful.
Al: So I think if you like that sort of thing it's a good implementation of that it's just that's not.
Al: I'm not what I'm looking for. I don't know what I was expecting. I guess I looked at the the 2d platforming part of it and it looked kind of spit it fader s can I thought maybe it'll be like that.
Al: But when I say platforming it's not really what I would consider platforming like yes you are transporting yourself between platforms but it's very much more the stealth puzzle aspect of it right like there's not hard.
Al: It jumps to do or like difficult things to figure out it's how do you get past this enemy without them seeing you basically and it's about crouching behind grass and claiming up certain things at the right time and that's not really what I'm looking for.
Greg: - Yeah, I mean, I notably do not like platformers.
Greg: [laughs]
Greg: Platformers, I just, there's a twitchiness of platformers
Greg: and the sort of like, it's just gonna be moved
Greg: into like the 3D space where I'm like,
Greg: I am really not great at judging distances.
Greg: I have, my eyes are two different sizes,
Greg: so I already have a difficulty with,
Greg: without my glasses, but even with my glasses,
Greg: like really understanding distances
Greg: because they've never looked right to me.
Greg: But generally, the idea of like,
Greg: jumping, jumping, jumping, jumping, jumping,
Greg: to get to a thing is fun once for me.
Greg: And then it's like, now here's 40 more worlds
Greg: where you do the same thing,
Greg: and I'm like, no, I did it once, I did it.
Greg: And then funny, it's like, it really,
Greg: I really hate platforming in games that aren't designed
Greg: for platforming.
Greg: Like Final Fantasy XIV has platforming aspects in it,
Greg: and I'm like, hard pass.
Greg: So are so loose because they have to be,
Greg: and like, is like, jump on this one tiny square,
Greg: and I'm like, no, this is not possible for me
Greg: in this context, and there are people who do it,
Greg: like there are actual, they built jumping puzzles
Greg: into that game, where you can go to certain areas
Greg: and see if you can get all the way up to the top.
Greg: And then you get like an achievement,
Greg: and I have never cared about achievements.
Al: Yeah I can't I can't about achievements if it's a game that I would otherwise be completing
Greg: And to me,
Greg: like, okay, great, I have a title that only I see big,
Al: most of it anyway and it's more I find it useful as a checklist right listeners will
Al: know it's become a joke in this lack I love lists I love a checklist I love being able
Al: to go. These are the things that I need to do in and get rid of them.
Al: I feel like achievements are like that for me. If I'm not enjoying a game or I'm
Al: not going to finish a game, I enjoy a little bit of it and I'm done. Yeah, achievements
Al: do nothing for me. I don't care about them. But do I like looking at my platinum level
Al: for Astrobot? I do. I like looking at that. Do I like looking at the fact that I have
Greg: [laughing]
Al: 100% of the achievements in Stardew Valley on Steam? Yeah, I do. I like looking at that.
Al: Is it a reminds?
Al: Well, yeah, Planet of Lana, not for me, but yeah, stay tuned and see what I'm playing
Greg: We're different people.
Al: on game pass next.
Al: I did download, haven't put more than five minutes into it yet, but I have downloaded
Al: them like a dragon infinite wealth. So well, well,
Al: we'll see what comes of that. It's very possible that nothing comes of that, and I just spent the time looking at it and going,
Greg: [laughs]
Al: "Yeah, I should play that," and then going and playing something else.
Greg: It's called the steam wishlist that everybody's like,
Greg: "Oh, put that on there."
Al: Yeah. But the beauty of, but the beauty of game pass compared to that is you get to even download the game.
Greg: And then I get notifications like,
Greg: "Hey, this thing on your wishlist is on sale."
Greg: I'm like, "Cool, I'm not."
Greg: It's on the wishlist and that was the game.
Greg: The game was putting it on my wishlist
Greg: and I completed that task, and now I'm moving on.
Al: And then not play it. Yeah, exactly, exactly. Look, I've got a terabyte on my not to steam deck, and I got to use it for something. Yeah, I think that's, that's why I've been up to. So let's talk about some news, some game news.
Greg: [laughs]
Greg: Hi, eat up my space.
Greg: I'm like, "Oh, I'm like..."
Al: So, here we go, right, first up, outbound.
Al: This is the campervan game. Have you heard of this game, outbound?
Greg: I've heard of it. I don't know anything about it really. Other than it's like you're in a camper van running around.
Al: Yeah. So the interesting thing to me is the fact that, so on top of your campervan, you
Al: can build a little like house and it looks like you can make it incredibly large, like
Al: comically large. That's what intrigued me about this game.
Greg: Like I those raft games where you're like out of the ocean and getting stuff
Al: Anyway, yeah. Yeah.
Al: Yeah. So the context behind this is the format to come out in April and then they delayed
Al: it the game until the 14th of May. And now they've kind of undeladed, but not really.
Al: So since they announced that they were coming on the 14th of May, so not to go to announce
Al: that they were launching on the 14th of May. And of course, you can't have two games
Al: releasing on the same day. And so they've decided, in fact, in fact, yes, you do as well
Greg: Yes, you can yes, you can
Al: in the later minute. So they decided that their, their, their PC and Xbox releases are releasing
Al: three days earlier on the 11th of May. I love the idea that you're going to be, if, if
Al: someone's someone was going to be like, I'm not going to play outbound because it's releasing
Al: on the same day as not to get three. Is instead going to go, oh, three days before, yes,
Al: I will definitely play both of those games.
Greg: Yeah, I'm yeah, I'm gonna I'm gonna play outbound for three days. It is so
Greg: Like the thought process to me is we only got about three days worth of game in us
Al: [laughing]
Greg: So get that and then go play the good game
Greg: Subnautica 2 like what are you saying with this press release? It's like
Greg: absolutely bonkers to be like we're gonna release three days
Greg: before our planned release because Subnautica 2 is coming out and we all know everybody wants
Greg: Subnautica comes out in three days. I'm not looking for something to fail three days of my time
Al: Yeah. And of course, the funniest thing to me is that it's only on PC and Xbox because the
Greg: Like what are you talking about?
Al: PlayStation and Switch ones console releases take time to set them up. You can't just change
Greg: Yeah.
Al: your mind in release three days earlier. So they're not. So you now have two release days
Greg: Right. I don't.
Al: depending on what you're playing on. They spray all this effort into releasing everywhere at the
Al: same time. They explicitly said, oh, I'm sorry, PC backers, we're going to delay a little
Al: week and release everything at the same time. And now they're not.
Greg: Yeah, and I mean, I feel like what they're saying is we are the exact gameplay loop as subnautica,
Greg: but we are clearly not as good. I mean, it's a choice. It's a choice to say that, I guess.
Al: Yeah. But it then gets more ridiculous. So, farm to table announced that they were releasing
Al: on the 11th of May. However, then, when outbound really announced that they were no longer
Al: releasing on the 14th of May, but releasing on the 11th of May, farm to table decided
Al: They were not going to release on the 11th of May. They wouldn't find going to release two days
Al: earlier on the 9th of May. Their announcement literally says followed by subnautica 2's recent
Al: date reveal outbound recently announced its new release date which now falls exactly on our planned
Al: early access launch date. They're delaying or they're pre-laying. I don't know what would
Al: What would the words for that?
Greg: I mean at this point, just we're pushing, we're releasing our game in 2020 to get ahead of everybody, like it's also so
Greg: Incredaled incredibly almost egotistical to me to be like well, we all are fighting for the exact same players
Greg: Are you?
Greg: I don't I don't think you are I think you are distinctly buying for a distinct audience like the beast
Al: These games are getting smaller and smaller as they really is.
Greg: Yeah, I like like I mean
Greg: Are you like are you also saying you're just a subnautica clone or
Al: And which, which, which, this is the thing, is nothing like Subnautica.
Greg: They're dead. I've watched the trailer. I'm like this is a different game
Greg: Why just
Greg: What do you like the idea that you can't release at the same time as your competition?
Greg: Are they your competition?
Greg: At that point, every game is your competition by this point, and you're never going to find a unique release.
Al: Like, I think there is something to some of it, like, I understand the people who are like,
Al: I, the people who are not announcing their release date until they know when GTA 6 comes out,
Al: because GTA 6 will suck up all of the oxygen on every website. Everyone's going to be talking
Al: about it basically and trying to get your name game noticed. If you'd release at the same time
Al: as GTA 6, I understand that one. But there has to be a limit somewhere where you're like,
Al: because as we mentioned 20,000 games released on SteamLash
Al: year, if you if you tell about mass, you might notice that's more than the number of days in the year by quite a bit.
Greg: Yeah, yeah. I mean, the thing is, like, if you're trying to, to grab the presses attention,
Greg: I mean, there are, there are many ways to do that. And releasing early, unless you're like,
Greg: we have all of the reviews out, and we're going to get reviews in everybody's hands,
Greg: and release, before this comes out, you are still fighting a clock of reviewers reviewing it,
Greg: writing a positive review.
Greg: And I'm just going to be talking about advertising it, getting it out to people, people seeing it and then buying your game. Like changing your release date earlier and earlier, especially when it's like two days, is not really winding that clock back very far.
Al: I just, it's their, like, I sometimes feel like I don't spend a lot of time on some games because I start them and then like within a week, I'm like, this is not for me. I'm done with this. But like, two days, really two days.
Greg: Yeah, yeah, two days. That is, that is like three days before subnautica, two days before the
Greg: one that's going before subnautica, like it is just, I mean, do what you think you need to do.
Greg: I guess it's just people don't know what to expect from you. And like the people who are already
Greg: excited about your game, who care about when you're releasing it, are going to play your game.
Greg: Regardless if it comes up against subnautica, if they are excited enough to follow you for
Greg: updates about when your game releases, they're going to choose your game over subnautica.
Al: Yeah, yeah, fun times especially funny with its like farming games because generally they're like long term games, right? Like you don't play stardew for two days
Greg: Right, right
Greg: Right, like these are long haul games and
Greg: Like they're gonna play your game, but I mean some not to get is also a long haul game, but also
Greg: If they're like technically the third subnautica because then they did one in ice or something. I don't know
Al: I, I don't know.
Al: But the first one only came out in, oh wait, either 2014 or 2018, depending on which thing
Al: I'm listening to.
Greg: [laughing]
Al: Oh, early access was 2014.
Al: Yeah, I know it's a while ago, but like also six years for the sequel of a large game
Al: like that doesn't feel like it was ridiculous, right, both, both of them, both of
Greg: No, it's not. It's not. I mean some some franchises would have you believe otherwise, but yes, that is not a tremendous amount of time
Al: of them. Both of them.
Al: I've released between GTA 5 and GTA 6, so do you know the funny thing about GTA 5 is I've
Al: said this a couple of times on the podcast but I'm not sure you would have heard that.
Al: I, GTA 5 came out the week I started work after uni, so like it's basically been my entire career
Al: since GTA 5 and it's not like I've now been working for so this was this 2026.
Al: They'll be 13 years between the games probably more because as I've said before, I don't think that game is coming out this year.
Greg: Oh, it's not coming out this year it we're lucky if it's coming
Al: Yeah, I think probably probably by the end of next year, but yeah, it's not coming out this year.
Greg: I mean, if they can delay until America decides to actually do something right and not ruin the
Al: [laughter]
Greg: world economy, like I've talked about this on my other podcast a lot. Like, 2026 for most
Greg: companies is just a planning year because it's impossible to know what in things going to cost.
Greg: And everybody is just praying that something will happen, which we all also are praying, we'll
Al: Don't say don't don't don't make don't make me delete things like this podcast
Greg: be able to correct the the sinking ship a little bit. I won't. But like, the only only easy thing to
Greg: release this year is digitally if you do not have to rely on any physical anything because making
Greg: something in person physically right now is so outrageously expensive. And
Greg: It's so hard to get to places that like, you know, they are, they are well within their rights
Greg: to be like, we're going to wait another year if they want to sell any physical copies because
Greg: there's already sort of because of the subscription model and because of so many other things
Greg: people want to feel like they're holding something. Like, I have this physical thing in my hand
Greg: and you can't take it away from me because everybody's being
Greg: burned by subscription models so much right now. Like, I do not think they have any pressing
Greg: any pressing needs to release in 2026 and I don't think they will. Yeah.
Al: No.
Al: It's gonna make all the money whenever it releases.
Al: [laughing]
Al: Oh dear.
Al: All right, fun times.
Al: We have a couple of new releases coming.
Al: So first off, tales of psyche have announced
Al: that they're 1.0 is coming on the 11th of June.
Al: And, horticula, horticula is now out on switch.
Al: So if you were waiting for either of those things,
Al: there you go.
Greg: They're here at last.
Al: Congratulations.
Greg: This, okay, you don't play all of these, right?
Al: [clears throat]
Al: Right, okay.
Al: So just to give you an idea, in 2025,
Al: they're where 76 games that were released.
Greg: Oh yeah, I would be there where I would obnoxious them out.
Al: I covered on the game.
Al: No, I maybe played maybe a sixth of them.
Al: And that's a stretch.
Al: Like some of them would have been very short.
Greg: Okay, so what what about a game catches your eye? Like as there's so many what about one of these games to you is like
Greg: Oh that that has mechanics or themes that I want to play
Al: very good question. So I think in terms of when we're looking at say stargy lakes,
Al: it has to do something different. It can't just be it's stargy, right? Because I played stargy
Al: and stargy is excellent. Now I'm not saying stargy couldn't be better and I'm not saying games
Al: couldn't be better than stargy, but trying to be just stargy is really hard because you're not
Al: not going to do as well with the characters.
Al: That's what it does the best in my opinion and all of the other mechanics.
Al: If you can have all of those mechanics, but why would I then play that game?
Al: If I can just go and play Stardew again.
Al: So it has to do something different and that's a hard thing to judge on
Al: whether there's something different is interesting or not.
Al: I've never really thought about why some grab me and some don't.
Al: I think sometimes there's something
Al: different, can just be a little bit laughable, right? Where it's like, oh, it's stardew, but in space is a classic one. There's loads of stardew, but in space, there's stardew, but in the past, there's stardew, but in the future, there's stardew, but all of the animals are weird. None of them have particularly interested me a lot. I didn't play roots of
Greg: Mm-hmm. In space! [laughs]
Al: which was the big stargy bit in the past one, although it's always
Al: been on my list of I would like to play it, but I've never actually got round to it,
Al: because that's the other issue, right? As we know, being interested in the game does not mean
Al: playing it. I think half of the ones I would play are ones that I, sorry, let me rephrase that,
Al: half of the ones I have played are ones that have at least some wider grab-on things, right?
Al: So take this year, for example, one word about to talk about it.
Al: I initially thought that I mean, initially thought it was a scam.
Greg: [laughing]
Al: I've, you know, I've put 50 hours into it now and I'm still not sure whether it's a scam or not.
Al: And that one initially, I was like, looks okay, but I'm not, you know, massively looking
Al: to set aside a bunch of hours to play it.
Al: But then I saw a few other kind of more mainstream places start talking about it.
Al: And I was like, "Okay, maybe they're...
Al: there is something to look at here, and so that's when I pick that one up."
Al: And then I would say the other ones are ones that are, "I've not seen anyone talk about."
Al: And so I think it's fun to try smaller, particularly faster ones, right?
Al: Like, if someone has here is a, here is a farming game where there's a specific hook to it.
Al: And realistically, you're not going to get more than 10, 20 hours out of this.
Al: I am much more willing to try those ones because I
Al: can get the entire game played in a week and I will know immediately
Al: whether or not it's worth it and there's a part of that which is just content
Al: is hard sometimes and getting something to cover can be hard. We actually had a
Al: comment on Spotify this week which was asking us to please stop covering
Al: Pocopia which is I so I think is
Greg: Uh, no. [laughs]
Al: I understand if you are not super into Pocopia we have now done like eight
Al: games in a row eight episodes in a row on Pocopia and so I understand if
Al: you're if that's not your game you're like oh my word can you please stop
Al: talking about it I'm just I'm fed up with it I know it's I know you like it
Al: but like come on let's talk about other games but actually being able to play a
Al: game long enough to have something interesting to talk about exactly and it
Greg: Right. Every time is a feat.
Al: actually led me to
Al: a lot of Barton out at the end of last year when I seriously considered just canceling
Al: the podcast before figuring out a better way that allows me to continue doing it while not
Al: having to worry about that as much.
Al: And so that's why I think smaller games are quite useful because it's like, oh, here's a game
Al: that I have played the entirety of.
Al: I can talk about this, right?
Al: Because it's nice and small.
Greg: Right right. Yeah, it's nice and small and it's gonna
Al: Yeah, exactly.
Al: Because the thing is, we don't all have, not all games are like Tomodacti life where
Al: for an hour, I've played it for more than that.
Greg: - Right.
Al: But like, and I were then, you know, I have so much to talk about, uh, we can
Al: record a podcast on this, even if I don't play it anymore.
Al: Like if a game is like, okay, you're not going to know straight away, it takes a while
Al: to figure that out.
Greg: Yeah, and I think...
Al: I start saying dialing is a good example of that.
Al: Like when I were then I would have no idea what to talk about with that game.
Al: I needed to play a lot more of that when it's Tomodacti life.
Al: like, I know immediately what to talk about.
Greg: Yeah, I do think there's something about, particularly things that they call cozy games where
Greg: you have to sit with that game for a while to see if, is it cozy or is it boring?
Greg: And is there something in there that is an interesting loop, an interesting game play that keeps
Greg: it from being boring or is there nothing here, but I think a lot of cozy games.
Greg: A lot of cozy games get a lot of gameplay out of people by the fact that the start is always so
Greg: much the same, that you have to get through the like, here's how I set up my farm. And now I have an
Greg: axe and here's how I break trees down. And now I can do rocks. And like that intro alone for almost
Greg: every cozy game is often like the first at least half an hour, but sometimes
Greg: four hours of that game. And it's like, okay, I've finally done all the things where I have a home.
Greg: And I've now discovered that there's an ancient ruin that's poisoning the town's people.
Greg: And now this is actually
Al: Yeah. No, absolutely. I think it's why I have so many opinions on tutorials and the start
Al: of games is because I've played more of that than, you know, I've played that in every game
Al: that I've played, right? But sometimes that's all you play in a game because it's just so frustrating
Greg: Right. Right. When I also really wish a lot more games,
Al: and bad that you stop.
Greg: cozy games feel like they need to establish the coziness up front.
Greg: And I think they should really at this point understand that everybody at
Greg: this point kind of like Stardew Valley,
Greg: made sure everybody knows what a cozy game is, throw us into the interesting
Greg: action first, make us like invested in the world and then
Greg: we can go set up our house because we all know what we have to do. We all know
Greg: what the chores are. We have to make plants and we have to cut trees and we
Greg: have to mine rocks and we have to give people presents like we know all of
Greg: that that could come after why am I in this world and what makes this world
Greg: unique and interesting. It's about my have with a lot of beginning Pokemon
Greg: games like they also do this where it's like this low thing
Greg: I'm now yeah here we're going to slowly talk to this person who slowly talks to you about
Al: Here's how to catch a Pokemon.
Al: I know.
Al: [laughing]
Greg: the world and then you make a choice and I want to actually find out what the main conflict is
Greg: for maybe five towns like throw me into something interesting I think it's one of the things that I
Greg: really appreciated about Sun and Moon is they have that opening cutscene of a person
Greg: danger to get you invested in like there is really something going on here
Greg: and then when I'm thrown back into my world it's not long before I find that person that I was thrown into
Greg: like I still do my short beginning but almost immediately I run into Lily again
Greg: and now I'm like okay I have a better sense of what's going on in this game I'm much more invested
Greg: Where as if we look at something like Scarlet and Violet?
Al: Hey, have you been to school?
Greg: Which is one of the most boring beginnings of any game is like I have you been to school like yeah
Greg: I've been to a lot of school
Greg: Have you met this
Greg: really intense person before yeah, I know a lot of intense people and
Greg: Nothing interesting in that game happens until you're well within the school
Greg: Got in a class assignment and then said now you're free to go on your own
Greg: And that's like an
Greg: hour into that game.
Al: it's so long. You know, the more I think about those games afterwards, the longer I am from
Al: initially playing them, the less I like them. I definitely like the more than you did.
Greg: Oh yeah. I am not a fan of Scarlet and Violet.
Greg: Yeah.
Al: Having, you know, talk to you a lot about them. I definitely liked it more than you did.
Greg: Yes. Yeah.
Al: But even, yeah, like I totally see all the complaints about it. And yeah, the more time there is,
Al: the less, the less I like them. I do, I think the idea of being in a school is an interesting
Al: initial hook, maybe, as I'm like writing on a black, you know, whiteboard, here's some ideas
Al: in a school is an interesting idea to me. But if you think about it, right, if you're a kid
Al: playing these games, you're like, I'm not in school. I don't want to talk, I don't want to think
Al: about school. Let me play my game. This is meant to be escapism. And if
Greg: right. Yeah. Yeah. I'm not connected to this at all.
Al: you're an adult, you're like, oh my word. I'm so part past school. This doesn't mean anything to me.
Al: So like, yeah, I get why someone would think it was an interesting concept, but getting to an
Al: actual good version of that is hard. I actually think the blueberry academy bit is done better because
Al: it's not your school. You're coming into the school and experiencing that as an outsider is actually
Al: more interesting than I am in a school, especially as like, you're not, though, aren't you, right?
Greg: Right, right.
Al: Like, sure, you can take, I'm about to say you don't go to classes. I know you technically can go to
Al: classes, but you never have to touch that, right? So you're not. You're not going, and most people
Greg: you never have to and yeah what frustrates me about that also is there is so much of the story hidden
Al: wouldn't, right?
Greg: in those dumb classes but also they were hidden so far into those dumb classes that after you took
Greg: two you're like well why am I doing this like so yeah yeah i
Al: I think I experienced more of that story through people telling me about what the experience
Al: rather than which, by the way, might be really, might also be something else we're talking
Al: about this episode.
Greg: yes but yeah like I think one of the things that when we're talking about like 20,000 games
Greg: you people need to understand you have 20 minutes of people's attention
Greg: to get them hooked into what you're doing and a tutorial of how to chop wood or
Greg: winding around and going into tall grass and then have somebody coming up to you for the four million
Greg: time to tell you hey you can't do that without a Pokemon these are no longer ways to get
Greg: people's interest into games. Like you need to make a case early on because you are fighting for
Greg: a, you're fighting against a lot of people for attention and if you can't make your case quick
Greg: you're not going to make your case at all. It's one of the things that I learned that was interesting
Greg: a person talking just about how to present to a
Greg: like in this public life, like if you have to do a presentation for your office, for your work for school or whatever,
Greg: they're always like, you have a tendency to try to do the justification first.
Greg: They're like, state your conclusion, like state, hey, I am saying this is what's
Greg: happening. And then people are like either they have an immediate reaction of
Greg: you know, you're wrong. OK, you're going to try to prove me wrong or interesting. I'm curious how you got that, but everybody sort of knows where we are going with this, and you've got that almost immediate buy in, whereas if you're like, I spent 14 years in the field and I went around talk to people and talked about your methods. People are like, yeah, yeah, everybody does that. Where is this leading? And I think that's the same with a lot of games. It's like, OK, stop, tell me at least why I should be interested.
Greg: And then get me into the details of how you're going to get me to the part where I will be interested.
Al: Jim was interesting because I think that games are uniquely bad at that in terms of media because
Al: they're almost complacent because you've put all the marketing in the please buy my game
Greg: Right. Yeah, yeah.
Al: and now you've bought the game and now we don't care right so like the hook that got you to buy
Al: the game might be 10 hours into the game but I don't care you've already bought the game
Greg: It's such. It's such. Yeah, yeah, yeah, but also it's it's such a
Al: Whereas film and TV need to grab you straight away because you're straight
Al: dreaming it, you're not buying it, and it's all in how much you're actually watching.
Greg: Capitalistic CEO thinking of we just need you to make that initial purchase and we don't we don't care about how you feel after that
Greg: Because we will have gotten your money and then we are going to wait for the cycle for people to forget and
Greg: people knowing that the Internet is hot garbage and so when they hear bad things about a previous game they can write them off as cranks and
Greg: a lot of people do
Al: Or we'll release a really nice side game in between the main games and then then you'll be like, Oh, yeah, no, the next one. Oh, have to be good.
Greg: Yeah, yeah
Greg: Have to be good because we bought we bought good will
Al: Oh dear. All right, let's finish up this news. So three more things. First up, star signed island has a new update.
Al: It adds dating. So if you were looking for dating in star signed island, I was not, but I'm sure plenty of people playing star signed island where because it's all about, it's all about the
Greg: [laughs]
Al: the anime design, right? People always want to date their anime characters. There you go. Weird to me that that wasn't in the first version because I feel like that's a big part of what lots of people were probably looking for in that game. Again, not me, but that's because I mean, they're all, they all look like kids.
Greg: Ah, that it drives me back.
Al: I mean, it's worse for you like quite often most of these games will at least have, you know, one that's kind of like my age, but
Greg: it drives me but like I don't mind if they're like in their 20s and 30s like great that's
Greg: that's a core audience. There is such a level of creepiness when you know your core
Greg: audience is light 20s early 30s and most of your characters especially your female characters
Greg: look 17-18. If you're lucky and like you are sort of winking and nodding that they're of age
Al: if you're lucky.
Greg: But like, you are fi-
Greg: just kidding into such a gross concept, and it- it- it particularly anime is not good at portraying
Greg: ages very well, like all anime characters have giant eyes, which say to people they are young.
Al: - Yes, just the eyes.
Al: [laughing]
Greg: Big eyes is a facet of younger people.
Greg: And so just if you take away the rest of their body and just focus on their face, they give them childlike faces.
Greg: It's why we also fall in love with animals, they have big round eyes, and they kind of look like little sweet little children.
Greg: And like, anime really plays on that line, as they really like playing on that line with their female characters.
Greg: and then they'll make like this 400 million.
Greg: And then like this 700 year old man loves this just 18 powerful, which I'm like, stop, just stop, just stop like, we need, we need this little thing to sort of, I mean it's been, it's through all time.
Greg: It will not end in time soon. It's just at this point in my life. I'm like, I see, I see what you're going.
Greg: for, I understand who you're tapping into and maybe we shouldn't.
Al: icky. Next up, Hello Kitty Island adventure have their next event, which is the month of
Al: May. So during May, there's a Gujitama con is apparently what they're calling it with a bunch
Al: of extra clothing and stuff. And also it says there's a costume contest, but it doesn't
Al: If you have any details on that, I'm not sure what that means.
Greg: [laughing]
Greg: Hella Kitty Allen Ventures again that I want to play,
Greg: and I promptly forget it exists every time,
Greg: and then I'm reminded of him like,
Greg: "Oh yeah, I'll find how to do that, and then I don't."
Al: I loved playing the game. I think it was fantastic, but also I didn't finish it.
Greg: And the thing is,
Greg: yeah, I mean, I love so many of the same Rio characters,
Greg: but also it's just, I don't.
Greg: I don't have time.
Greg: It's not a big enough grab for me.
Greg: Those characters alone aren't a big enough grab for me to constantly seek it out.
Greg: And I think I actually technically have it for free on my Apple TV and I still haven't checked it out.
Al: Yeah, generally interesting thing about it, though, is actually a good game, which was the most surprising thing for me.
Greg: I've heard it's a good game.
Greg: I need to find time. I don't have time.
Greg: Maybe this summer it's not going to happen.
Greg: Let's just trust me.
Greg: Narrator voice, it didn't happen.
Al: and our final news information. So a little bit about the story to this. Last year it was announced
Al: that there was going to be an animal crossing collaboration with sea life, UK-based aquarium
Al: company, and they were going to be doing what they called a UK tour of sea life
Al: doing animal crossing exhibits within the aquariums. And when we actually looked into it,
Al: it turned out that the only sea lives that were going to were in the very south of England. It
Al: wasn't even far into England at all, just the very south of England. There were about four of them
Greg: [laughing]
Al: and they were all within like two hours driving each other, all like south of Wales, like really far
Al: to it. Well, I was frustrated about this because there were sea lives all over the place. There's even
Al: one in Scotland and they did not include that in their list. Good news for me.
Greg: You are you
Al: Maybe, I don't know. I'm trying to figure out whether I can do this or not, but they have announced
Al: that it is coming to the Loch Lomond one, the only Scottish sea life, but that does technically make
Al: it a UK tour now. It's not just in England, woo! The problem with this is not, so it's not too far
Greg: Yay!
Al: away from me. It's maybe about an hour and a half stride. It's not too bad. I mean, well, it's Scotland.
Al: an hour and a half gets you most of the way across the entirety of this country. But the main issue for
Al: me is they've only just announced it and it's this month. I'm actually away for the last week of this
Al: month and it doesn't start till next week. Basically, there's three weeks that I can go and it's like,
Al: no. I can't plan this for three months time or something. I've got to decide if I can do it in the next
Greg: Yeah, okay. Well, right, right, have they like that's got to be pictures from the from the other events, right?
Al: Three weeks.
Al: I think so. It's not it's not like it's super it's most it's mostly like kind of posters and cards and stuff, but there have been like they have Tom Nick and Isabelle in like proper a person in a costume type thing and there's like
Greg: Does it look like there's enough stuff that it's worth going?
Al: stuff for the kids to do, right, which is obviously important for me because I
Al: will have, if I'm going to an aquarium I'm obviously bringing my kids along, right, so it does seem pretty kid focused, I suspect, on individual adult might feel a little bit awkward going to that, but we'll see, I don't know, you know, the sort of thing.
Greg: like if anybody asks you say yeah I'm trying to find my kids and then walk off
Greg: that's what you handle all those yeah make kids around here somewhere I'll find
Al: But the other real problem for,
Al: I mean, is that we live five minutes from an aquarium, one of the biggest in Scotland and we have an annual pass to that aquarium.
Greg: Well, maybe it'll come.
Al: Well, it's a different different company. So yeah, we're trying to, I plan to figure out how to make this work.
Greg: Oh, well, no.
Al: But it needs to happen like now, so I don't have a long time to figure it out. But yeah, I asked for it to come to Scotland and I guess technically it has come to Scotland.
Greg: It has. You got your wish. You can't complain now.
Al: Got to go to put my money where my mouth is. I just maybe wish we had to go a little bit more of advanced noticed of that, but anyway, also is coming to the Birmingham one, but I don't care about that.
Greg: Get get ragged, burbing them. Get out of here. Nobody likes you. You're the
Al: I'm just not in the south of England, but it feels like the south of England to me. Actually, probably true.
Greg: the birth of the UK. That's a deep cut. Yeah, but that's the main city that people care
Al: Yeah, but the funny thing is that there's a pair of things in Scotland. It's one of the main cities in Scotland.
Greg: about.
Greg: Sure. Are we are we living the dream though? That's a that's a valid question.
Al: Should we talk about Tomodat, your life living the dream?
Al: We're living the dream or living the nightmare.
Al: All right, I'm gonna try and explain this game in a sentence
Al: and you can tell me how good you think I've done.
Al: 'Cause I've previously described this as just silly sims,
Al: but how I would describe this is it is silly sims,
Al: but if you have to babysit the sims to a ridiculous degree,
Al: but focused around social media hype,
Al: while making it incredibly difficult to share to social media.
Greg: so I would argue that even if you babysit them a lot it is nothing is in your control
Greg: like it's silly sims where you actually have no power to a
Al: Well, yes and no, it's like everything and nothing is in your control at the same time.
Greg: Yeah, that's the problem. Yeah, it's so
Greg: Bizarre and I sort of forgot I didn't really forget but like
Greg: Playing the game. I had to remember like oh, yeah, I just have to lean into the fact that I will I will put pieces around and
Greg: then
Greg: Then sit back and let the pieces do whatever the random generator decided for them to do
Greg: I can't actually
Greg: I don't have any way of finding out what they like. I have no hints that I'm gonna give them something and they something gonna hate it
Greg: And I'm gonna lose their happiness because there's nothing about them that says that they wouldn't like this outfit and yet
Greg: I gave it to them and they're like hmm
Greg: I'm like, okay, we'll use your words
Greg: Because you are actually speaking to me you can actually speak in this game
Al: [laughs]
Greg: Tell me exactly what you want but also since I'm limited to
Greg: what happens to show up in the store, I don't have a full catalog. You're like, "Find me something pretty." And I'm like, "Well, I have a egg costume." And that's the only thing I have in this shop.
Al: [laughing]
Al: - Yeah, yeah.
Al: Okay, let's roll back a little bit, try and try.
Al: I'm gonna try and get some sort of structure to this.
Al: 'Cause it's always the problem when you're covering a game
Al: that is, shall we say not your cup of tea?
Al: It's easy to just spend your entire time complaining about it.
Al: But I do have some positive things to say about this game as well.
Greg: I mean, I'm playing the heck out of it, but there are things about it that I'm like, "Why?"
Al: - Bye.
Al: - So let's start off with,
Al: what is your history with Tomodetche life?
Al: Have you played any of the people?
Greg: Yeah, so I played the 3DS game. I played the mobile game for as long as it was alive
Al: Oh, I was not aware there was a mobile game when Nintendo were obsessed with phone games
Greg: Yeah, there's like a weird mobile Tomadachi like you could invite your friend
Al: for some reason.
Al: It does look like it was just called Tom of that life.
Greg: Yeah, I think it was just called toe and touchy life and you could have it on your phone and then you check in every day and you'd be there and then you would sometimes connect with other people and
Greg: Whatever so I played that
Al: do you know I think I would actually prefer this game to be on my phone.
Greg: I could still be around. I don't know. I deleted it a long time ago
Al: it's not it looks like it looks like you can probably still get the like you could get the android
Al: version and download it but it's obviously not supported so it might not work great but just I just
Al: think in general like I think this this would actually I think is it's a game it would work well
Al: for me on a phone but that's
Greg: Well, I will say this, I found it's easier to play. I almost play everything on my Switch exclusively on the TV.
Greg: And this one I pull it out, and because the touch screens are much more important on this game.
Greg: And also, there's so little that I have to see that having it on a big screen doesn't provide me
Greg: any benefit. It doesn't look any better on the big screen than it does handheld.
Greg: Alright, back to the organization.
Al: All right. Yeah, so I think I think let's let's start up talking about the start of the game
Al: Which is creating of bees right because you start up this game, and it's like hey create me and I don't know
Al: But you but I'm not a very creative person. I'm not I don't have it. Well in terms in that aspect
Al: I'm of you know, let's not get into debate about what creativity is
Al: I'm not looking at this and going oh, I have an idea that I'm gonna create Slenderman or Shrek or whatever
Al: Right, like I love what people are doing with it, but that's not my thing, right? So my big problem with the creation
Al: I think the creative created create the the me creation is generally pretty good
Al: I do have a few complaints about it, but in general. I think it's very flexible and
Al: You just need to go on tik tok or on blue sky or whatever and you'll see so many people with really really
Al: impressively designed me use the look like real people or look like fictional characters
Al: very impressively.
Al: Um... that's not... mmm...
Greg: Yes, and I am, I am a creative person, like I can look
Greg: at the pictures and say, okay, I know how to recreate this.
Greg: My issue with it is it takes a really, really, really,
Greg: really luck time to get there.
Greg: And I'm already like, well, I only have like two hours
Greg: to play this and spending half an hour on all of the options
Greg: while they are super impressive and super deep.
Greg: It's just not something I can do.
Al: Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's fair.
Greg: And like I think the options that they have in there are quite impressive.
Greg: Like this is probably the best me creator they've ever come up with because there are just so many things you can do.
Greg: But that's also part of the problem is there's so many things you can do is that it's easy to get lost in.
Al: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So yeah. So I think there's two problems with it. So as you
Greg: Okay, well, how did I get these eyes to look like this?
Greg: I don't even know what I clicked anymore because it doesn't really keep track.
Al: say, it's fair, you can get lost in it, which you'd think would be solved by the fact
Al: that they have a second way to create them, which is called prompt. But it's not prompt.
Greg: and it's awful.
Al: It's just let's show you all the options in order. It's not like it's not.
Greg: Yeah.
Al: It doesn't. What I totally assume to be like, give us a vague idea of what you want and
Greg: Yeah. Yeah.
Al: will create it. But it's like, no, what face shape would you want? I don't care. Like, I'm
Al: here because I don't care about the shape of the face. Right? If I cared about the shape
Al: of the face, I would have gone into the custom editor, just give me a better like how,
Al: it's like somebody went, oh, create a linear way of creating means that means they don't have
Al: to go through all the options. And someone went, okay, great. And nobody checked up on whether
Greg: [laughing]
Al: they actually wanted, right? Like, somewhere just like, yeah, sure, I'll do that. I'm completely misunderstood
Al: the entire point of it. Like, I thought there was not a 3DS game with you could make me
Al: vaguely based on a picture that you took. They don't have that. Right? Um, which it doesn't need to be
Greg: Yes, you could
Greg: Yeah, no
Al: perfect. I get that that might be complicated, but you can at least give them a start. And,
Greg: Well, you've had it in the less complicated system,
Greg: because I'm pretty sure it was part of Mitopia.
Greg: Back in the 3DS, I don't remember the switch one had it.
Al: that yeah yeah did the switch one have that or did that miss it as well?
Greg: I did play Mitopia for the switch,
Greg: and I don't remember if it had a picture on it.
Greg: I mean, I get that there's a camera built
Greg: into the 3DS so that you could just take a picture of it.
Al: sure sure sure sure yeah yeah yeah yeah but you can also do it in a different way being like
Greg: But this is connected to the internet.
Greg: And you have an album full of pictures
Greg: that you can take, like you could do this.
Al: or you know just like have a way for you to be able to select items that's not just like
Al: choose a face shape choose an eye shape choose an eyebrow shape like I'm in that option because I
Al: don't want to make those decisions but the other thing that I'm finding absolutely baffling
Al: is that they don't have a way to share.
Al: Because I am dropped into this game as a non-creative in that aspect of games person going
Greg: AHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH
Al: like I just want to play this game and I'm seeing hundreds of people online with incredible
Al: designs and I just want to choose one of them.
Greg: - Yes.
Al: I theorize that the reason they don't do this is because they don't want to get into copyright
Al: or trademark issues but I don't care.
Greg: But I mean that
Al: Like, you can, if you made it as a QR code, right, they're not hosting anything, there's no way for them to be sued surely because they're not, they're not the ones doing anything, it's just like people sharing QR codes that you can then use to recreate me in your game. I'm not a lawyer but like...
Greg: It's also like pre-acting a problem that doesn't exist, right?
Greg: Like in a world of fan art, in a world of a lot of fair use,
Al: Yeah. Good point.
Greg: in a world where this isn't a one-to-one recreation,
Greg: it is difficult to make the case that a person could come after you
Greg: for using their
Greg: likeness in a personal game and a personal way that that isn't even you like it's not even you but even beyond that you didn't stop people from doing the work to make them recreate people in your game so it doesn't really matter because if people spend enough time they will recreate you in their game.
Al: Yeah. Yeah.
Greg: So you've just taken a tool.
Greg: You're a great comedy out your artist, you're doing this, I'll give you like 10 bucks to make a good version of me and then I can just drop it in my game.
Greg: Or any of the like, they tried to fix it like Tomadachi share, which is a website that exists out there.
Greg: Show us these choices that people made to get to that.
Greg: They get that they made like there are ways that they have done it.
Greg: And if not perfect, it can get you closer.
Greg: And there's just a lot of face painting that has to happen is the face paint part that really breaks down the argument of like, oh, we don't want copyright.
Greg: I'm like, well, then take away face paint like people can just paint a picture of the exact person and put it in.
Greg: it in. Like, you are really, you are really solving four or nine.
Greg: It's not an existing problem in the worst way possible.
Al: Well, and it's especially funny because I don't if you know this they have an article on Nintendo.com
Al: Where they are sharing for the three different characters that you can add to your game in that way
Al: So they've just got the screenshots of these are the choices we made
Greg: Yeah, what- what- uh.
Al: And it's like you want this feature
Al: You guys want this feature and you don't have it. I don't I just I'm just I'm not really
Al: I don't think it's
Al: I just suspect is because of the lawyers and they're worried about that and that's why they didn't do it and that just makes the game
Greg: It makes the game worse. It does make the game
Greg: worse unfortunately and
Greg: It is like like I spent probably 15 minutes making myself and at the end of it. I was like, you know what fine. It will do
Greg: I I no longer care. I want to just get into
Greg: Playing this game
Al: That's exactly it. I loaded up this game and I went, "Oh, never have to make a character."
Al: Whereas if they had a way for me to just go, "Yeah, I'll grab that one." That looks fun.
Al: Let's throw it in and let's see how this game works. Half of my time in this game has been trying
Al: to figure out what I actually want. I don't have that imagination, but seeing people online
Al: been like oh they created a mr. Bean one I'll be like yeah sure I'll throw mr. Bean in this on this
Al: island why not that sounds like fun right but I just it's it's like when and I know this is
Al: probably a me problem but when one of my big hang-ups is when I get given animals in farming
Al: games and I have to choose a name for the animal I got to the point where I just called them cow one cow
Al: two cow three because I just I don't have the time and imagination to be naming these animals
Al: And you have games like Stardew, which has
Al: a random name generator, right? And it can just go here. Here's one. They could do something like that. For example, where it's like, make me a random me, right? There are so many more options they could do that doesn't mean either choosing from a hundred options or choosing from ten options, right? Which is not solving the problem.
Al: I think it's also, I think, because the other big, there's lots of bizarre decisions, but I think the other...
Al: most frustrating thing that people probably have is the sharing of screenshots and videos from this game, which I wasn't quite sure how that was going to be implemented until I played the game. And what I find really fascinating is that they've not stopped you taking screenshots and videos. They've just made it more difficult to get them on your computer. They've not even made it not possible. They've just made it more difficult.
Greg: yep yep and more difficult and I get like the idea is like kids won't be able to figure
Greg: this out like get get guess again guess again kids have way more time than I do to figure
Al: I'm right! Come on! Are you kidding me?
Greg: this stuff out, they're going to figure it out. Yeah.
Al: It has SD card, there you go, sorted.
Greg: Yeah, it's like it's not hard.
Al: It's literally copy to SD card is the option underneath send to mobile phone.
Greg: It's so bizarre and like, let me just let me import somebody else's creation.
Greg: I would love to take half of the things that people make and be like, you did such an incredible
Greg: face painting job and you spent so much time on that. Let me import that.
Greg: and they're like, hard pass, absolutely not. And the thing that's fascinating is they took
Greg: so many steps forward because you can choose their gender and they included non-binary.
Greg: You can choose who they are interested in. So you can say what they're dating profile is.
Greg: You can have them say, I'm interested in everybody. I'm interested in nobody. I'm interested in
Al: You can set them up with existing relationships, which I'm guessing also affects that, right?
Greg: you. Yeah.
Al: So if you put people in who are siblings, they're not going to suddenly fall in love,
Greg: Right. Right. Right.
Al: you know, that sort of stuff. They put in, uh, I don't know whether this was in previously or not,
Al: but like, you know, children and adults are separate and can only fall in love with each other.
Al: You know, so it's like, they've added all this ability while also keeping it relatively sane and safe.
Greg: right right yep
Greg: But
Greg: They also decided to not really put limits on what you can have them say about object or events and so
Al: [laughing]
Al: Yeah.
Greg: You can have children. I have zero children on my
Greg: Island
Greg: No, thank you, but I have seen screenshots of people who put in things that are not wholesome and the child is saying they're not wholesome
Greg: And like it's kind of funny, but also not and like if you're going to put in these weird restrictions then
Greg: Put in prescriptions like put in the guardrails or just don't and let let people play the game how they want to
Greg: play the game and
Greg: The me creation process is not short
Greg: like
Greg: There are, to their credit, so many.
Greg: Good options. But also, it's a great character creation with bad graphics, because no matter what, they still look like a me.
Greg: Unless you get so deep into the face painting where you're actively altering their face through paint, and at that point you're looking at hours of work, and I can't live that life.
Greg: But there are some, uh, like we go to...
Greg: some of the things people have done, it's like, "Oh, okay, like you have time on your hands to do this pixel by pixel."
Greg: Uh, like, yeah.
Al: And I love that. I love when people do these things, but what I find funny is the fact that they've created the most viral game possible.
Al: They've created this thing that is like bizarre situation, creation, and works really well on social media, and then made it more difficult to do that, and more difficult for people to want to do that as well.
Greg: Yeah, well I feel I
Greg: Feel like this is one of many games that I call streamer games
Greg: where this is great for people to stream and
Greg: Interacting with an audience watching and having the ability to take people from your audience and put them into funny situations and
Greg: Sharing that with people is a very entertaining way to play that play this game when you're alone by yourself
Greg: In your home and you've seen the same interaction happened between two different people
Greg: But it's pretty much identical to the one that happened yesterday. It's not as
Greg: The charm wears off a bit
Al: I agree.
Greg: And that's not to say that I am playing the game a lot but unlike a lot of other games
Greg: I go in for half an hour. I get
Greg: Half an hour worth of silliness out of it. The silliness wears off is not being interesting anymore
Greg: I don't want to wait around for somebody to have a problem
Greg: I can pick two people up and put them together, but I have no control over what's going to happen
Greg: So I can't even be I can't even state for a certain that that's going to create an interesting
Greg: Interaction or something that I need to deal with I've just put two people next to each other and half the time they just start talking and walk away
Greg: Okay, nothing happened and so
Greg: There isn't any incentive to
Greg: play the game for longer than an hour at best.
Al: And that's my fundamental problem with it because I've talked about this in the podcast before.
Al: That's not how I play games, right? Like I don't do the like sit down for half an hour a day
Al: and continue on, right? Like that's how some games want you to play them. It's how
Al: Animal Crossing wants you to play it. That's fine. That's not how my brain works for games.
Al: Like I sit down for a couple of hours to play a game. And I will, you know, I will binge that game
Al: for a few weeks and then I'm done.
Al: I don't want to do that.
Greg: [laughing]
Al: Like, even the podcast aside, right?
Al: Because like obviously I feel the pressure to cover many games and that's a thing.
Al: But even that aside, that still wouldn't be how I want to play games.
Greg: right. I mean, I will say like I played two hours for the first day and that was just literally
Al: Yep, most of it was making bees, probably.
Greg: trying to get was making me used to get people in so that something could happen. And now that
Al: [laughing]
Greg: I have like 13 me's in there because you're sort of a hard limited at 15. It says you can
Greg: get up to 60, but like I think some of them just don't come to this particular island if you have
Greg: more. I forget I haven't hit that limit so I don't know what the game does.
Greg: but 13 is already a lot to sort of be like who doesn't know each other how do I get them to talk and also
Greg: the game talks about like things will happen while you're gone no it doesn't none of these people talk to each other without me there
Al: Yeah.
Greg: like I have had me on there for a week now who are still strangers with each other and I'm like I guarantee you have walked past each other
Greg: or 13 times and for a game that's like things will happen while you're not here things ain't happening
Greg: they don't talk to each other unless I am there to push them together and only some of the time do I hit the lottery of
Greg: they will do some sort of little play for me at the other time is like oh they're just copying each other or mimicking each other pose
Greg: or they just started singing with each other I'm like great that's interesting for about two seconds and then
Greg: they're not doing anything else nothing nothing meaningful is happening in that interaction even amongst the me's they're not improving their friendship
Greg: they're not crushing on each other they're just in each other's company and nothing meaningful is happening
Al: I think that's the thing is the most fun I've had with this game is watching people's clips from streams online
Al: Which is something but it's not a way to convince people to play your game
Al: It's a way to convince people they want to buy your game. I guess
Al: But it's not really a way to convince people to actually play the game
Al: And then you load up the game and you spend and I were trying to create something that's not even
Al: Half as good as stuff you've seen online.
Al: And then a lot of nothing happens for ages.
Greg: - Mm-hmm.
Al: It's a fascinating smoosh of such a flexible, creative me creator.
Al: And some interesting things that might happen together with a whole lot of nothing.
Greg: and I enjoy playing the game, but I will do this thing where I'm like, okay, well, I'm waiting for a
Greg: house to be built in Pocopia. I'll pop into Tomodochi life while that's happening and spend
Greg: my hour in there and then I'll pop back and that'll be done and then I'll play that other game.
Greg: So I'm okay with popping in, but if I wanted to dedicate time to it, there's a lot of time,
Greg: like I tried last night, but like I'm just going to sit in this game and wait for something to
Greg: happened. And there were times when it was like,
Greg: ten minutes before somebody got some sort of symbol over their head to call my attention.
Greg: And I was like, okay, nothing's happening. Like they're walking around and
Al: Yeah
Al: And half and half the time when something does happen. It's it's like I'm hungry
Greg: right. You can eat. We have a restaurant.
Al: Okay, you can eat you can go eat yourself like why do you need me to shove a biscuit in your face for you to eat?
Greg: And the weird thing about having photo realistic
Greg: food and other things in this not photo realistic world.
Greg: It is part of the charm of Tomodachi life that I had to remember. Like,
Greg: oh, right. They just took pictures of food and threw it in this game.
Greg: And they don't make any, they didn't even make a nod towards trying to make it look
Greg: that they're actually eating that food. The picture gets smaller than disappears.
Greg: Fight like that is part of that is part of the charm of the game.
Al: There's a charm to it.
Greg: But there's just the game is really, it is really like half an hour, visit your knees.
Greg: Just get some basic needs met.
Greg: Also, you have no idea if you're actually going to meet their basic needs because they won't tell you if they like something or not until you've given it to them.
Greg: And of course, if they really don't like it, it hurts their happiness.
Greg: And so you lose progress sometimes because you gave them the food that was in the market.
Greg: And you had to make a choice and you just randomly chose wrong because there's no rhyme or reason between their likes.
Al: [laughing]
Greg: Like you can't find a through line but what they decide they like and what they decide they don't like.
Greg: You are just the game you just have to lean into the randomness, which works great if you have an audience watching you.
Greg: It's less fun when it's just you and you're like, I want something interesting to happen.
Greg: And I've got these two characters together and nothing interesting is happening.
Greg: Or I have a character that says they have a crush on it on this other character.
Greg: It says willing to risk it all and I'll put them together and they are not risking it all.
Greg: They aren't even approaching the subject because the game decided that now is not the time to talk.
Al: Yeah. Yeah. Do you know, I have two other things to talk about with me creation, because
Al: apparently we've spent the entire time talking about me creation so far. Um, one, I love
Greg: - Yeah.
Al: the pronunciation that the guide that you can do. It's so good because the, you know, the
Greg: - Yep. - Yeah, yeah.
Al: first name I put in was my wife's and it was like saying it completely wrong. And I'm like,
Al: it took me a little bit of fiddling to figure out what combination of letters and spaces
Greg: Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, yeah.
Al: would actually do it, but I got there. I think that's excellent. Um, here's a very unique thing. This is
Al: not an issue necessarily with the game, because I don't think a single person working on the game has
Al: even considered this. Um, because I have such a terrible, uh, imagination, I decided to just create
Al: my family, right? Me, my wife and our kids. When I came to create my one of my kids,
Al: if people don't know that I don't know if I've talked about this on the podcast before, but one of
Al: my kids doesn't talk. Um, and I got to the point when I had to choose his voice. And I was like,
Greg: Ah, yeah.
Al: I don't know what to do here. I was, I was frozen for ages just not knowing how to do this next thing.
Al: What I ended up doing was one of the robot voices is very hard to understand.
Al: And so I took that and I made it even more hard to understand. So you, it sounds like he's just,
Al: because like he does make noises. He verbalizes. He just doesn't use words. And so there is
Al: something to that. But it, it still felt a little bit weird because it's like he makes the noises
Al: kind of sing song he noises like he doesn't real life, but then you'll see on the screen,
Al: he's actually saying words and people are responding to him with words. And so it's just like,
Greg: Right, right
Al: this is I know
Al: it's almost no one else in the entire world is going to be in the exact same situation as this.
Al: It's just an interesting thing I experience.
Greg: I don't think that's true.
Greg: I think there's a lot of people who will also run into that.
Greg: Because I mean, the idea, it's also interesting because it's like,
Greg: there is a necessity that they feel for communication,
Greg: but it is a random communication.
Greg: Like, I can't actually interact with them,
Greg: unless they create a prompt for me to react to.
Greg: And they communicate to each other, but that is also not a necessary situation.
Greg: Because half the time the communication between each other is meaningless.
Greg: It's just, it's a weird, weird game that, that wants it to be played in a very specific way.
Greg: And it does do the things that Tommy Datchy has always done very well, which is create very specific way.
Greg: And there are three silly situations where you can put silly characters into those silly situations.
Greg: The issue that happens with this one is it's not easy to put those characters into those silly situations.
Greg: It's really hard to make a character.
Greg: Because in improving it, they've also made it more difficult.
Greg: And they took away the ability to import other people in.
Greg: What would happily say, "Hey, take meat?"
Greg: Take my meat and put meat into your games, but I have no way of sharing that with you.
Greg: I can only take pictures of the process that I took to get there.
Greg: I can't directly print, and then also I'd have to take pictures of the personality things that I took.
Greg: I also have to take pictures of my actual birth date and put it out there, and like if you really wanted that in there.
Greg: There's just a weird blend of things they thought to print.
Greg: I'd have to protect people with that ultimately make the game a little bit more frustrating to play.
Greg: And improving the island, like you can just do whatever.
Greg: Like you can just draw paths, but then also they'll be like, "Hey, I want to have a path here and that's going to cost $20."
Greg: I'm like, "Well, why don't I just go into item island builder and do it for free?"
Greg: need to let you choose the $20.
Greg: To increase your happiness. So basically, I'm just giving you $20 to be happy.
Al: [laughing]
Al: - I'm a grown parent.
Greg: Right. I mean, it's weird. And like, the island creator part is really interesting, but it takes
Al: Happy birthday.
Greg: a very long time to get to all of the options. And then you still have to get all of the options
Greg: to buy things in the shop.
Al: I, yeah, I, I found that really fascinating is like how much you have to unlock and how much
Greg: Two weird things that happen there.
Al: not necessarily you have to unlock, but how much you just have to hope for is there's so many
Al: different ways that they're restricting what you can get, right?
Al: Because you've got money, right?
Al: And you have to have the money to do a thing.
Al: And then you, there are certain things that you have to unlock by just playing the game
Al: eventually the unlock.
Al: And then there's things that you have to just hope are going to show up in the shop at some point.
Al: And restricting it in those three different ways is really weird to me.
Al: It's like I get the restriction on one restriction because it's like we don't just want you having access to be able to do everything you want all initially right from the get-go, sure, I get that.
Al: I get wanting you to like slowly build up the island and being like well you can't just immediately add 60.
Al: You know, me as into the game, sure, fine.
Al: But why three different ways of restricting it?
Greg: And three of them that are somewhat random, like two of them are like what happened to show up in
Greg: the shop? What happened to be here? And like to get all of the path options, you have to spend your
Greg: wishes on it. And like that requires you to increase everybody's happiness level. But happiness
Greg: level can suddenly be reduced because you didn't know that they didn't
Greg: like crab. But that's all the store had in stock today.
Al: And it's also that happened is gets you money as well, right?
Al: So the same thing gets you money and unlockables.
Al: So it's like, why are those two different things?
Al: Like, it's restricting in two different ways that happened to be unlocked in the same way.
Al: Very weird to me.
Greg: Yeah, it's, I mean, it's sort of like they help in the fact like if you check in every
Greg: day, you'll get, you know, people have thrown money into the wishing well and you get
Greg: just free money that way.
Greg: And like I'm at the point now where I have two, I have $2,000 and I just keep getting
Greg: money because like ultimately, until somebody asks me to renovate their room or asks me
Greg: to get them a new outfit. I am just not giving them a new outfit.
Greg: It's because why bother? I may hurt. I may inadvertently hurt my happiness with you by giving
Al: - Yeah.
Greg: you the wrong thing, but you didn't tell me what the right thing was.
Al: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Al: I think that's the problem is that you end up
Al: in a situation they're with the early game.
Al: You have almost nothing that you can do.
Al: But then middle game, you have all of the money,
Al: but nothing you want to do.
Greg: Yeah. Yeah.
Al: Which, like that doesn't encourage you to do more stuff.
Greg: Yeah, yeah, it's
Al: I don't know what this game wants to be.
Al: I think is the problem.
Al: Because you could say, oh, well, it wants to be
Al: the viral internet game.
Al: But it doesn't because it makes that difficult to share.
Al: And so, like, if it's not that then, what is it?
Greg: Yeah, I don't, again, this is the problem with a lot of the games.
Greg: I don't know that they had a clear vision for what ultimately they wanted the
Greg: game to be other than just a silly maker game.
Greg: And
Greg: silly maker game is fine if you gave us an easy way to share the silliness.
Al: Yeah, that's the thing.
Greg: and you didn't and also you sort of acknowledge that
Greg: everybody is going to film it on their phone and put up bad video quality. Anyways, like they just didn't there's just a lot of things that I just feel like they did not think and I don't know why why didn't why didn't you think that through like why don't you let us download me because I'm pretty sure in me to help you you can download me and you can't here, which I don't understand why.
Al: [laughs] Yeah.
Greg: I don't understand the choice of not being able to download other me's I do think like being able to have like an animal crossing level creator where you can create shirts and you can create objects and create treasures and you create houses like all of that is great if you've got a lot of skill and you really enjoy spending time with up with a painting creator, but I think that's it.
Greg: a tiny amount of people that really want to do that and there's a person that I'm following on one of the socials I don't remember which one who's like giving tutorials like I made this here's how to do it here's the pieces you put together and I'm like great I haven't unlocked those pieces because I can only unlock them with wishes and I need wishes to get quirks or items or all of the paths to recreate my island in the way that I want to.
Greg: or rooms I need to use my wishes to add rooms to the room shop like this it's there's so many things that you need to do that you would want to binge the game for hours to try to get them but you're just not allowed to because.
Greg: You can sit there for a long time and nothing will happen and when nothing happens you don't get money you don't get happiness and you can't really force the me's.
Greg: to give you happiness.
Greg: Like, there's only so many times you can give them food before they're full and then like I don't want to eat any food.
Al: which also isn't a fun gameplay element either. Like, oh great, I'm going to try and
Al: progress this game by doing the exact same thing over and over again, giving them a biscuit,
Al: giving them a biscuit. You know, like that's that, because as you say, you're not encouraged to try
Al: new things just in case. So you're going to keep giving them the one thing you know they like.
Greg: Right, because you can ruin your project. Yeah.
Al: It's, it's a creativity game that makes it hard to be creative. And it's a viral internet game
Al: that doesn't want to go viral on that.
Al: [laughter]
Greg: Yeah, it's, it's, it's a little weird.
Greg: It's a little, it's a little, but again,
Greg: I honestly, this falls into the new category
Greg: that I think exists, which is streamer games.
Greg: This gives streamers something to do
Greg: within the Nintendo family, family that will keep
Greg: their audience entertained while they're working on them.
Al: Yeah, but then it would also be better if you could then the streamers could share their creations again, right?
Al: We keep getting back into this point of these restrictions make everything about to
Greg: Right, right
Greg: Yeah, yeah, because I would love to take my
Greg: Streamer that I'm watching and be like let me have your me in my game and then I could also enjoy this
Greg: Silliness, but I also can't so unless I've watched you create it and then sit down and recreate it at the exact same time and if you're an artist and you did
Greg: A whole lot of face paint that I...
Greg: can't recreate. Like, it's just...
Greg: I sound more negative about the game than I am when I'm playing it.
Greg: I just have to be like, I think like, this is...
Al: Oh, I don't.
Greg: It is a game that you are meant to just pop into, except what the game will show you.
Greg: Try to put a couple people together to see if you can get a slightly more interesting interaction.
Greg: But if you can't, it's not happening today.
Greg: close the game down. Come.
Greg: I'm going to go back tomorrow and right.
Al: But this is, but this is, this is where I don't get like why would I do that myself when I can just go and take talk and see other people who've already got those moments.
Greg: Yeah.
Al: I don't get why I would put time into this at all.
Greg: Yeah. I mean, the one thing that would help with that is if you had a
Greg: way, you know, if you have knees that you find interesting and you had a way of making
Greg: good knees or importing them in, which they took away.
Al: Yeah
Greg: like I sit there and make.
Greg: I put in a lot of Pokemon gym leaders.
Greg: But I don't let them talk about Pokemon.
Greg: I make them talk about Domus guy, my property.
Greg: So there's no Pokemon on my game.
Greg: They're all talking about my game.
Greg: Because I can put in any word that I want.
Al: That sounds, yeah, that sounds interesting. I wish I could perhaps get those ones and put them in my
Greg: right. Yeah, you can't. You're denied. For no, and that's the thing for no good reason.
Greg: Like, there isn't there isn't a use case that I can think of that. Yeah.
Al: And I guess if you if they've had previous games where you could share me, I guess the the the law lawyer aspect of it probably doesn't make any sense.
Al: And so then I get into like, yeah, exactly like if that was a thing they were okay with before, why are they now not okay with it? I don't I don't get that.
Greg: You could you could do it before.
Greg: Yeah, it doesn't make a lot of sense.
Greg: And it's not like the me creator is that it's got more options, but I don't think it's more complicated so I don't I can't even imagine that it's a
Greg: Get the settings
Greg: Different or wrong like
Greg: It all works the same way as animal crossing works
Al: Yeah, you just you just you re you re implement it for the new settings, right?
Greg: Yeah
Al: Like it's still just a QR code with data right like you're gonna have to re implement it anyway because it's for a different console
Greg: Yeah, I don't
Greg: And I mean the game does make silly moments and silly things happen. I
Greg: Am running into the situation where the same silly moments keep happening, but with different ones and I'm like, okay, well
Greg: This played out exactly the same
Al: Yeah, I will say, yeah, most of the, most of the funny moments I've seen on TikTok are
Al: they're dating, right? It's like, I'm professing my love for you. You know, I'm,
Al: I'm Galinda and I'm professing my love for alphabet, but for some reason, Michael Jackson and
Greg: Yeah. Right. Far different characters. Yeah.
Al: Shrek are also there. And it's like, yeah, that's funny. And then, but the next time it's the same
Al: thing, but it's just four different characters. And then, and then the next one, it's four different
Al: characters and I will probably find out funny forever right like
Al: different characters professing the love for each other and then being upstaged by someone else completely unrelated. Those are going to be continued to be funny. But again, I don't want to put in 10 hours of gameplay to get one of those on my own. Why don't I just go on to talk and see a few of them.
Greg: right I can't yeah and I also I don't have a good way of sharing that bizarre yeah
Al: Yes, well exactly because the easiest way to share it is actually as you've pointed out being a streamer because they're they're literally just hooking into the H.
Al: And automatically everything's recorded and you know the streamers with lots of listeners are or watchers sorry are they're clipping this stuff automatically anyway so like they have all that free labor as well.
Greg: Yeah, yeah, yeah, they have all that stuff. Yeah
Greg: It's it's
Greg: It's difficult to know who exactly the audience is for
Greg: Who this game is the audience?
Al: Because if it is just streamers, that's not a very lucrative business for Nintendo.
Greg: Yeah, it's not a very big
Greg: Right, yeah, it's just it's just weird and like
Greg: There's not a lot to do in the game
Greg: So it's like I can't even say like it's a cozy game
Al: No, yeah, we've we've we've talked about all the features
Greg: Yeah, like the best you could do is just pick up a me put the mixture in other me hope that something happens
Greg: Pick up another me somebody might want to play a quiz with you in which case
Greg: Good luck because it's like here's here's here's a pixelated
Al: [laughing]
Greg: Picture and it's a just a round circle. I'm like, okay
Greg: Well, the options are a thing and a bowl or a thing and a plate
Greg: So I have no other contact
Greg: so I'm just gonna pick the thing on the plate. Nope, it was the thing in the bowl. Okay.
Al: Yeah No, but you do you do you just get a different weird treasure because you get a consolation prize
Greg: You know, I don't I don't get a weird treasure to put in my bag. Yeah, well, yeah, you get a
Greg: constellation. It was either toilet paper or tissue paper. That's it. It's always the same. It's always toilet
Al: Oh, they always I've obviously don't not done enough of them. I didn't realize they were always that. Okay fair enough that that's fine. Okay
Greg: paper or.
Greg: I'm like yep that's all you get that's all you get and you can go sell them at the
Al: I did I did notice that the two that I've done. I got the two that I failed. I got time of the paper and I got tissue paper
Al: I just didn't realize that was
Al: all you got, because I didn't do a third one. I didn't do a third one to get a duplicate.
Greg: pot shop for a dollar when most things cost like fifth.
Al: Okay. Let's come to some sort of conclusion. I don't like this game, but let's be honest,
Al: anyone who listens to this progress probably could have predicted that.
Al: Sounds like you are enjoying it.
Al: To some degree?
Greg: I enjoyed to some degree, but also I fully I sort of had to adopt the mindset of if I don't touch it for a couple of days
Greg: That's fine, I'll come in spend half an hour during our maybe on lunch like when I don't really have time to do a big build in
Greg: Pocopia, or I don't want to get deep into some other game that I know it's going to take time. Yeah, I'll pop in see how everybody's doing
Greg: Give them some food maybe buy some new items put a couple people together for half
Greg: an hour, maybe an hour and then I'm done for the day and I do not have to go back and so in those in that mindset
Greg: I I am enjoying the game in the mindset of where I have just
Greg: Had to willingly say I have to give up all control like these two people say that they have crushes on each other
Greg: No amount of me throwing them together in the same room is progressing that storyline
Greg: I have to wait for the game to decide that the
Greg: is the time we're going to progress that storyline and I have found some sort of piece in being like cool I will just come in it's like watching a show for 20 minutes that I have a little bit more saying and then I leave and decide okay I'll come back I'll come back tomorrow so I've been enjoying it but I did have to yeah.
Al: It's like a choose your own adventure.
Greg: I'm enjoying it in the fact that I just have to be like I don't have a lot
Greg: of control and I can't play this like I would play any other game. I just
Greg: have to only play the game exactly how they want me to play it because I have no
Greg: other options.
Al: So, so the real question is, how do you recommend this to me?
Al: I don't know what I'm expecting here.
Greg: There are a subsection of people who enjoy playing.
Greg: There's a lot of mobile gamers who feel that way.
Al: But that's, well, that's the thing. That's what I was talking about. That's why I think this game would work better on a phone, but the problem is it's not.
Greg: Yeah.
Al: So I don't think you're getting the mobile gamers in there anyway.
Greg: It was on the phone.
Greg: Yeah, I mean, I think for a handheld travel, like if you are taking your switch to like school or work or something where you just want to have something
Greg: to keep you entertained for a little bit of time, this is a game that will keep you entertained for a little bit of time.
Greg: It's not deep by any means.
Greg: You aren't going to make, you aren't going to have a lot of choices to make other than designing your island.
Greg: If you are really, really creative and you like having a blank, just a blank canvas to play in, including people's faces and you feel like, yeah, I just like making
Greg: Interesting faces, and I don't really care what happens.
Greg: This is the game for you.
Greg: But again, we're sort of drawing these weird,
Greg: they're like these weird, desperate circles,
Greg: that it's hard to say exactly who the audience
Greg: they intended it to be for.
Greg: I'm in there, but only because I'm just like, yeah, it's fine.
Greg: It's fine and it provides me enough
Greg: silliness in the 20 minutes that I'm going in.
Greg: I'm not going to interact with it, but I think it's worth it.
Greg: Do I think it was worth the price?
Greg: Heck no.
Al: [laughing]
Greg: No, it was not worth that price.
Al: - Yeah, I'm off to sell this game tomorrow.
Al: [laughing]
Greg: Yeah, it's, I mean, again, it's part of, it's, you know, this is what game costs now and it's hard.
Al: It's
Greg: We're in that tough thing where it's like we've paid less for games that have more.
Al: That's I think that I think that's the thing I'm not against paying lots of money for a game if I
Greg: And.
Greg: Right. Right.
Al: Love it and if I get a lot of it like
Al: Poco Pia I have had
Al: So much fun with so many hours in and I may never touch the game if they never bring out DLC
Al: I mean I never touch the game again, but I feel like I got so much my money's worth
Greg: And it's hard because like this is like people will say that this is the price of games, and that is true
Greg: but it's also
Greg: difficult to
Greg: Accept that this is the price of games and
Greg: not get a
Greg: The same amount of game play out of the game
Greg: Like we are in that sort of interesting
Greg: situation of all games are getting.
Greg: And you're cost analysis, your cost analysis is becoming much more a part of the equation that it ever has in the past.
Greg: Like, yeah, there's 20,000 games, but we're at the point where there's 20,000 games that all cost $60.
Greg: And we don't have that money anymore.
Greg: And so, like we said earlier, I think games really need to
Greg: state exactly what they are upfront, so that people don't feel like I spent a lot of money on
Greg: nothing game, and your marketing made me feel like I was getting much more of a game than I got.
Greg: Like, it's getting harder to justify in a world of so many games that really give you so little or put in weird
Greg: weird restrictions that you--
Greg: feel hamstrung from enjoying the game that you want. Like, it's hard to say, like, it's hard for me to say, like, "Oh, I can figure out how I would get you to get more enjoyment out of this game."
Greg: Because there's really nothing I can do. I can't give you means that I think would be fun.
Al: Yeah.
Greg: I can't even promise that if I gave you the means that I think you're fun, that they would do interesting-- anything interesting in the game.
Al: Yeah, there's no guarantee that if you do A, B, and C, that D will happen.
Greg: No. Right.
Greg: It's, there's no guarantee that A and B will even exist.
Al: Yeah. Well, yeah, that too. It's such a fascinating game. We can probably talk about it for hours,
Greg: Yeah
Al: but also we'd probably just be repeating ourselves again and again and again.
Greg: Yeah, mm-hmm
Al: Yeah. I'm going to enjoy watching on TikTok and I'll continue to do that. And that's
Greg: Yeah. Yeah.
Al: That's why I would recommend.
Al: Sure, I guess if you're the sort of person that loves, if half of your time playing Cyberpunk 2077 was creating your character, then this is the game for you.
Al: But I also don't know like how big that audience is, and I certainly don't know how big the audience is in people who listen to this podcast, but I don't know, maybe.
Al: For joining me to talk about this fascinating game.
Greg: [laughs]
Greg: It's a weird little game.
Al: Is there anything you would like to share slash plug with the audience?
Greg: I mean, listen to my other two podcasts.
Greg: Very random encounters, which is an actual play podcast
Greg: where we play pen and paper RPGs.
Greg: If you wanna hear me talk this level about board games
Greg: or tabletop games, listen to my other podcasts.
Greg: Game mechanics where we go into this depth
Greg: about the board game industry.
Greg: You could also just find my games that I design
Greg: and make role playing games.
Greg: Other men dot games, and hopefully in July,
Greg: my next game, Domeskyye Tamers,
Greg: which is a Pokemon style game, will be in physical production.
Greg: But FYI, I am also affected by the global craziness.
Al: the global everything
Greg: So, the global everything.
Greg: And you can easily find me on blue sky.
Greg: Blue sky is probably the best way to find me.
Greg: You can find me there at Lysander03.
Greg: I have links to it from all my other stuff.
Greg: So, you can find me on Instagram.
Al: All right, well, you can find the podcast on Tumblr and blue sky at ths pod you can send us feedback from our website harvenseason.club
Al: Tell us what the weirdest
Al: Tom about your life clip you've seen is because I'm not assuming anyone's actually playing it
Greg: [laughing]
Al: So tell me whether weird is clip you've seen on social media
Greg: Just us, just us too.
Al: Because I love I love hearing about the weirdness of them, but yeah, that's that's about it
Al: Also on our website find links to everything to do with the podcast including our patreon patreon.com/thspod where you can
Al: get access to our slack and
Al: Mock me which is what has seems to be half of the slack is
Al: And also access to our bonus episodes of the podcast
Al: I just remembered that me and Kevin recorded one last week and I forgot to edit it
Al: So hopefully that will be out this week
Al: The problem with the bonus episodes is because they're not like regular every week
Greg: Right. Yeah.
Al: This I don't have them in my to do list in the same way
Al: Like I have I have a template for my for the podcast episodes that I import
Al: I have a task in the episodes to import for the next episode
Greg: Yeah
Al: So it's like there's always a
Al: Project going for the current episode on the next episode
Greg: Yeah
Al: But the problem is because they're not on a regular cadence the bonus episodes don't get that so if I forget to put it in the to do list
Greg: Yeah. Yeah. I mean, that's the reason why we didn't do it bonus podcast for game mechanics for our
Al: What is going?
Greg: patrons. I'm like, uh, who's editing it? Because we have an editor like we pay an editor. I'm like,
Al: Yeah
Greg: we're going to pay more money. Or are you going to take this job up? And we're like, nope, we don't want to do
Greg: either of those. So we're not doing another podcast. Uh, don't bonus episodes for game mechanics.
Al: I'm jealous of the podcast that you just like an extra little segment at the end because
Greg: We win a different--
Al: it's just like then it's just tacked on and you can't really forget about that but people
Al: like the bonus ones apparently. I suggested putting on the next bonus thing at the end of
Al: the episode and they were like, no, no, keep them separate. So, okay. Thank you.
Greg: I guess
Al: Yep. I think that's everything. Thank you again for joining me, Greg.
Greg: Thank you for having me
Al: Thank you listeners for listening and until next
Al: time have a good harvest.
Greg: Yeah
Theme Tune: The Harvest Season is created by Alan McHenry, with support from our patrons, including our
Theme Tune: pro-farmers, Kevin, Stuart, and Alisa.
Theme Tune: Our art is done by Micah the Brave and our music is done by Nick Burgess.
Theme Tune: Feel free to visit our website, harvestseason.club for show notes and links to things we discussed
Theme Tune: in this episode.
Greg: get all the wheat or whatever fantasy wheat is in the game that you're playing, won't.
Al: What would be the equivalent in Tomodachi?
Greg: Whatever dumb thing happens in their, in that supermarket, like I got Maple on a stick, which
Greg: I'm like, is that like, just Maple syrup on the end of a stick?
Greg: Like, what is this?
Al: just a stick just dipped into a jar of maple syrup.
Greg: Yeah, it's just a stick, just dipped in Maple syrup, but I'm like, I guess.
Al: It's like a dog treat.
Al: It's like, I went in one day and it was just five different fruit.
Greg: Yeah, but I'll give it to you, I guess.
Greg: Don't eat the stick, well you ate the stick, so.
Greg: Oh, yeah, yeah, guess it's fruit day here on the island.